RBAC( role based access control):
    all the resources of k8s like pods, deployment , statefullset,service to these does the user has access or not for that the role have been created,

to learn the RBAC we need to learn two thinks service account and users,
service account can be a manager and administrator
service account can be at namespace but the user are generally at cluster level.
and the roles are there like can i get the service, update it,delete it and all there are the roles and to assign these role to a service account we need role binding.
like wise on user side there is cluster roles and to bit it there is cluster role binding,

RBAC is basically how much access we want to give to a user or service account and keep a control over access.
it can be achieved with two types one with namespace level putting all together resources in one namespace or at cluster level

now we will see service account through namespace:

tip:
kubectl -f . : this command deletes all the resource at once.

kubectl auth whoami : see the current user

kubectl auth can-i get pods : this command gives the answer meaning a user is authorised to do any perticulaer task, yes or no.


apply namespace , deplayment.

now that as admin role we can do everthing we have full access but in case we hired an intern and he ran the delete command then everything will crash.
so we need role.yml

so vim role.yml

save and apply role.

kubectl get role -n apache
now we have role we can bind it but we need a service account to bind it.

vim service-account.yml

save and apply

kubectl get serviceaccount -n apache


now we have the service account.
to check it without binding it run command:
    kubectk auth can-i get pods -n apache --as=apache-user

so lets create a binding:
    vim role-binding.yml


save and apply.

kube ctl get rolebinding -n apache
now role and service account is binded.

kubectl auth can-i get pods --as=apache-user -n apache

this was the role base access control with service account.
now 

when we need to do monitering, loging then we need cluster role and cluster binding.

there the use case of the RBAC changes before we was using it on namespace level not at cluster level this is a huge horizon.
meaning a user created at cluster level, collect the log of whole cluster, work on whole cluster pods and same with deployment

now we will have a dashboard to see all happing in cluster.

lets setup dashboard:

apply dasboard manifest files:
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/dashboard/v2.7.ø/aio/deploy/recommended.yaml

lets make a dashboard-admin-user

so vim dashboard-admin-user.yml

in this file we are defining cluster-role-binding below the ---,meaning above the --- there is cluster-user and below is binding.

how to get the clusterrole to put inside the binding deatils:
    kubectl get clusterole -n kubernetes-dashboard

not save and apply.

not to make it work we need to run proxy but before that we need to get the access token first.
    kubectl -n kubernetes-dashboard create token admin-user

for the above created admin-user we will create a token, so it can assess our dashboard.
and run:
    kubectl proxy --port=8001 --address=0.0.0.0 --accept-hosts='.*'


and go to :

http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kubernetes-dashboard/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/
and past the token there and signin.
 
tip: kubectl proxy & : this help to keep the command running in the background



Custom Resource Defination(CRDs):
    here the resources we know are the pods, deployment ,services and etc.
    there are all already known to k8s.
but how does it knows what is it and what is its structure?
    when we need to make such resources which doesnt exist pre-defined in k8s then we have to make them for own purpose then we make it through custom respource defination.
example: someone might have made pod meaning the structure need to have a spec then container then image.

like wise this CRDs help to create our own.

like pods have their apiversion as v1 and ther deplayment have as apps/v1
this apps is the group name, and the v1 is the version of that resource
so the pod have v1 meaning it dont have group name so its bank and v1 is the pods resource version.

mkdir crd

cd crd

vim devops-crd.yml

so now the is created but how will k8s know that this is a custom resouce and this has custom resource structure.
simple: juse use kind as CustomResourceDefination
and api version is going to be apiextension.k8s.io/v1


not the file is written and saved

not we need to apply it.

kubectl apply -f devops-crd.yml

and check it with :
    kubectl get crd

now out custom resource is ready.

now by using it we can create resources.

same with vim filename.yml
then use the deatils we defined in the above file and make the new file and we have to save and then apply.

kubectl describe <shortname> <crname>
