Resource Quotas:

this can be explained better with a ec2 having 4gb ram and suddenly traffic enters and full ram is occopied by one pod then it will be hard to another service pod to function without memory avaible.
to put limit on resources is what we are going to learn.

so here we put resources inside the deployment.yml meaning that this will request some size of cpu and memeory and what will be the max limit this will have with size 
    meaning atleast size to atmost size.

while we can scale pods so we dont stuck the node.

resources:
    requests:
        cpu: 100m
        memeory:128mi
    limit:
        cpu:200m
        memeory:256mi


apply deployment then see the pods then desctibe the pods 

Probes:
probes are of three types:
    liveness probe
    readiness probe
    startup probe

probe is a request weather the pod is working appropately or not.
to make sure the pod is running fine or not with the help of port calling , once the pod is created it will send a internal request to the port , this determines weather the pod is live or dead.
from create to ready is check with readiness probe, while start of pod at that time startup probe is used to verify the pod started

implement:
    livenessProbe:
        httpGet:
            path: /
            port: 8000

readinessProbe:
        httpGet:
            path: /
            port: 8000

apply servce if not, the deployemnt and check pods.

use desctibe to see 
kubectl describe pod podname -n nginx

Taints/ Tolerations:


when we tell the cluster kubectl apply deployment,
    api server tells the scheduler tp schedule a pod then schedular decide on which node to schedule the pod,

now the taint is telling you k8s cluster not to schedule a pod to a specific node.(we can decide on which node not to deploy the pod telling schedular)
and tolerance is in case of a tints node still we want to schedule a pod then we use tolerance

implement:
    taint:
    
    get all nodes:
        kubectl get nodes

    taint a node:
        kubectl taint node node-name prod=true:NoSchedule

    apply a pod
    incase of all nodes if we tainted then it will not schedule pod showing pending status
    can be check with describe commaand:
        kubectl describe pod/pod-name -n nginx
    
    to remove the taint :
     kubectl taint node node-name prod=true:NoSchedule-

     tolerance:
     open your pods file in the spec add:
        tolerations:
            - key: "prod"
            operator: "equal"
            value: "true"
            effect :"NoSchedule"

        
    save exit.
    now even if the node is tainted still it can be schedule a pod, on node tained matching prod="true"


HPA and VPA:

this is called horizontal pod autoscaling and verticel pod autoscaling.

this autoscaling is basically the used to handle traffic loads, and it heppends with resource useage threshold.
HPA is increasing pod numbers and vpa is like adding resource or computing power so it can handle better load.

VPA is used in StateFull(mysql)



and KEDA (kubernetes event driven autoscaling)

keda selects HPA or VPA based on the nature of matrix or events,
matrics is usage of cpu or memory kind of resources.


to know the matrics use command:
    kibectl top node
    if this returns matricx API not avaible then, check if kube-system has matrics server
    and this server tell everything happing on node or cpu.

that matrics must be instralled whith command,
for ec2 if its not installing then there must be secure commands need to be placed refer documents.
    
you can check at pod level too:
    kubectl top pod (can add namespace to if what to check it the filter)

now we will see apache for HPA:

apache is is another server which helps to deploy apps.

create namespace, deplayment and apply those and check the pods is running.

to make it publicaly avaible then we need service.yml
apply ther service

and check :
    kubectl get all -n apache


we can also access the service inside the pod with dns:
    http://apache-service.apache.svc.cluster.local(comming lecture later)

port forwarding:
    kubectl port-forward service/apache-service -n apache 82:80 --address=0.0.0.0
    or add sudo -E kubectl port-forward service/apache-service -n apache 82:80 --address=0.0.0.0

not add inbound security port for traffic are we are good.
check with ec2 ip /port and we can access it.

in case of heavy traffic the cluster might stop functioning,


not the setup is ready now we need to create a HPA.yml
apiversion: autoscaling/v2
kind: horizontolPodAutoscaler
matadata:
    name: apache-happing
    namespace: apache
spec:
    scaleTargetRef:
        kind:deployment
        name: apache-deployment
        apiversion: apps/v1
    
    minReplicas:1
    maxReplicas:5

    metrics:
        - type:Resource
          resource:
            name:cpu
            target:
                type: Utilization
                averageUtilization: 5
                 

save and done.
apple and check with:
    kubectl apply -f apache
now how to add laod?
google :  online stress generator url
either this above or we can create our own.

kubectl run -i --ty load-generator --image=busybox -n apache /bin/sh

while true; do wget -q -O- http://apache-service.apache.svc.cluster.local; done

 
VPA:

git clone the autoscaling repo on github
and run those given commands.

make vpa.yml

make apply service and deployment with namespaces,

then add traffic to the app and check the kubectl get vpa -n apache
kubectl top pod -n apache


node affinity:

this is use to define a set of instruction if that matche the pod will schedule on those condition satisfaction only.
lets say a region specific server or datacenter the pod will be schedule only there.
