as we all know that this is a project we have already done.
we have already created service and deployment for redis,result,vote and worker.
so now we know all how to apply to k8s cluster so now we will move on to theminitoring and obervebality.

lets understand that.

what is observability?
    observability is based on three main principles.
    matrics , log and traces.
        matrics : used for monitoring
        logs : logging
        traces: Tracing job
    
    with matrics it tells us:
        what is happining in the server:
            cpu usage, ram usage, network and etc.
    
    with logs it tells us:
        why it is happining?
            reasoning. tells us logs , error lines
    
    with tracing it tells us:
        how it happened?
            how did we reached this situation.
    tools used:
        metrics:
            we use tools like prometheus which gives us the metrics (cpu usage, ram)
            to show this matrics somewhere we use grafana, it can be also seen on datadogs, powerbi, kibana
                place where dashboard where made we can put our matrics there.

        Loging:
            well to capture logs we need tools like loki,promtail

        for tracing:
            jaeger
            opentelemetry 
    
the aim is to k8s cluster containing the app how do we monitor it.

to export matrics of a node then we need to use a service called: nodeexporter

what it does:
    take the information form node and used port 9100 and /export it.(cpu, ram, network )

while the apiserver is minitoring the entire cluster, what does the api server contain that data will be exported.
    the master node keeps a perticular namespace(kube-system) this is a namespace where the etcd, apiserver,schedular,controller manager all these services are running init.
    even these all services needs to be monitored.

this is 360degree monitoring of a k8s cluster,this can be done with another service kube-state-metrics
    this keep a check on all the compunents inside the cluster the core components are the working as intended or not.

so now we understand monitoring is not about the node-exporter or docker containers, rather this wraps around the whole cluster including the core components.

now all these data of monitoring would go to prometheus.
    this allows us to scrape data

prometheus is a timeseries database that has ability to scrape data, query(query server (promQL)),graph, data store.
all this data then goes to visualization tools like grafana.the data store above is the data source of grafana.


we now create cluster with anything we are confortable with:
    KIND,MiniKube etc.

now on that cluster there are n number of things running we need to do monitoring.

now we have installed helm and KIND using the official document:
whenever we do any work in k8s we do it in isolated group. called namespaces.

now we going to create another namespace monitoring:
    kubectl create namespace monitering

now we need to add the promethois community in helm chart:
    helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts

check that with:
    helm repo list

now that the repo is setuped, all the chars are the in the repo now we need that to be in the cluster as well so:
    helm repo update

now need to install prometheus-stack from prometheus-community and i want perticular stack which is : kube-prometheus-stack
and set their nodeports for both grafana and premetheus and defining the service type also:
helm install prometheus-stack prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack \
  --namespace monitoring --create-namespace \
  --set prometheus.service.type=NodePort \
  --set prometheus.service.nodePort=30000 \
  --set grafana.service.type=NodePort \
  --set grafana.service.nodePort=31000

  NAME: prometheus-stack
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Oct  6 15:37:09 2026
NAMESPACE: monitoring
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
DESCRIPTION: Install complete
NOTES:
kube-prometheus-stack has been installed. Check its status by running:
  kubectl --namespace monitoring get pods -l "release=prometheus-stack"

Get Grafana 'admin' user password by running:

  kubectl --namespace monitoring get secrets prometheus-stack-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 -d ; echo

Access Grafana local instance:

  export POD_NAME=$(kubectl --namespace monitoring get pod -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=grafana,app.kubernetes.io/instance=prometheus-stack" -oname)
  kubectl --namespace monitoring port-forward $POD_NAME 3000

Get your grafana admin user password by running:

  kubectl get secret --namespace monitoring -l app.kubernetes.io/component=admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.items[0].data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo


  kubectl port-forward svc/prometheus-stack-kube-prom-prometheus 9090:9090 -n monitoring --address=0.0.0.0

  now the prometheus can be seen over client:
    in prometheus we need to maintain a file prometheus.yml in which we have to put the scraping configurations.
    because we are using helm some configurations are already there checl it with the client /healthtarget

kubectl port-forward svc/prometheus-stack-grafana 3000:80 -n monitoring --address=0.0.0.0

not grafana and prometheus is up on client.
but now we dont know the password:
    due to security reasons of pods password can be different:
        now lets get password from pods
        :   kubectl get secret prometheus-stack-grafana -n monitoring -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}"