now that we have learned so much many things its very hard to make all these yml manifest files.
starting from writing kind , templet and what all.
to make it easy, keep the struggle of writing a manifest and for all environmant make files seperately,whole is packeged
this can be achieved with helm an package manager

like we install anything through the terminal with code gudo apt-get install unzip
same like help to install all manifest files.

Helm:
this is used when we have to make three seperaete nodes with different application.
like suppose we have nginx,mysql and notes app.
for that each we have to create all k8s resources so this helm helps us there with packing it with package manager and he will install it
this is a packege manager which help applications and workload to manage ,deploy and update and so on.

how to use it?

first install helm:

find the instll over helm offical site.
helm create apache-helm

just one command and files are created

might see and folder cd into it and do : tree

tip: tree is a external pacage which show whole directory in good visual manner.

since thats a templet and we dont need to do any anything juist fill the values.yml and we are ready.

now once all is ready just do:
    helm package .

package is created (can be import or exported)

now we need to create one dev environmant the one prod and staging environmant on same package, and name it as well.

helm install dev-apache apcahe-helm

to remove the helm chart then we can do:
    helm uninstall dev-apache

one problem is that it uses default namespace.
to solve this define the namespace in command:
    helm install dev-apache apache-helm -n dev-apache --create-namespace 

first save the value.yml then make its packge:
    helm package apache-helm

any change made in values.yml and now need to run it with helm then:
    helm upgrade prd-apache ./apache-helm -n prd-apache 

rollback in helm:
    helm rollback prd-apache 1 -n prd-apache


helm repo list: see all repos there.


helm life cycle


init container vs side car container:
    these two topic comes under pods
    in both there is main container, what main container is, it is a container which is the first container,
and the init container is before creating the main container any path needed or folder needed , to initialize it this init container is used.
in short before running main container it checks for the respouces needed to run main container.

example: creating a folder is a need for xyz app and in that we store something.
so first the init container runs and create the folder then main container runs save the files in that folder.


what is sidecar container?
    one manifest again and in spec it will run two containers, one with main app, second for collecting logs or something.
    this is running two things parallel.
    also know as helper container.

in init container manifest file the kind is always pod, we will creater container inside the pods.

make a manifest file for vim initcontainer.ymal
save and apply and check the pod with:
    kubectl get pods

and as we see the pods now go in pod's container which is main container with:
    kubectl logs <pod_name> -c <container_name> -c <another_container_name>


now sidecars contianers(two thing side by side):
    vim sidecar-container.yml


save and apply.

check pods:
    kubectl get pods
get logs:
    kubectl logs sidecar-test -c main-container -c sidecar-containers



Service Mesh:
lets understand it with simple example:
    we we uber eats app which contains alot of services like one would be order, restaurents, grocery, events ,menu and many more.
    this is a very complex achitecture.
    to direct traffic we need a gateway and to redirec the traffic where it need to be it can be done with the service mesh.
    a populer tool used for service mesh named: istio

setup a new folder where we will setup new cluster:
    mkdir istio
    cd istio

create a cluster:
    kind create cluster --name istio-testing

download istio from istio official link:

istio :
    envoy : this is a sidecar container /proxies. that allows all services and traffic inside it, logs it keeps on injecting
    istiod: this is idtio's control plane,show all services of an application.
    pilot:   this is used to configure the proxies
    citadel: to issue certificates
    Galley: to validate,ingest, aggregate for logs
    operator: used to operate with service mesh

cd bin
./istioctl

like with kubectl we run kubernetes commands now with istio we will run istio commands.

now the binary is located at a location so wont be accessable to whole computer and to make it available:
need to move it to usr/local/bin :
    command:  mv istioctl /usr/local/bin

like our command binaries like mkdir cp and more,
now the istioctl will be copied there.

now from istioctl will work from anywhere in computer.

now install istio

cd into istio folder and run:
istioctl install -f samples/bookinfo/demo-profile-no-gateways.yaml -y

istio is a service mesh which handles services.
if i want to run the istio in any namespace ,but its a third party tool if we want to allow it in out k8s cluster
we give default namespace a label istio-injection=enabled

:   kubectl lable namespace default istio-injection=enabled
if error:
     kubectl lable namespace default istio-injection=enabled --overwrite

check it with kubectl get namespace -L istio-injection

install the crds:why? because its is not by default of k8s.

kubectl get crd gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io &> /dev/null || \
{ kubectl kustomize "github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/config/crd?ref=v1.6.0" | kubectl apply -f -; }

lets deploy sample application:
kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml

now that the everthing as service and deployment is done lets one productpage service on our client:
    first check the service with:
        kubectl get svc
    
    get the name and port:
        kubectl port-forward svc/productpage 9080:9080

now its like for each we run service seperately meaning we have 100's of services in real work.this is getting us mad:
to solve this we have istio.


Validate that the app is running inside the cluster by checking for the page title in the response:
    kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')" -c ratings -- curl -sS productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"


open the application for outside world:
    lets create a gateway:
        kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/gateway-api/bookinfo-gateway.yaml
    Change the service type to ClusterIP by annotating the gateway:
        kubectl annotate gateway bookinfo-gateway networking.istio.io/service-type=ClusterIP --namespace=default
    check gateway:
        kubectl get gateway
    open the gateway:
        kubectl port-forward svc/bookinfo-gateway-istio 8080:80

now we say thing but its so confusing to find form what which is coming and what is it.

to understand that we will install a kiali dashboard.
    Install Kiali and the other addons and wait for them to be deployed. :
        addons: kubectl apply -f samples/addons/kiali.yaml
        deployment of kiali in istio-system namespace :kubectl rollout status deployment/kiali -n istio-system
        Access the Kiali dashboard: istioctl dashboard kiali
